hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast production of
neonewstoday.com
i'm your host dylan gravowski this
episode of the smart economy podcast is
part of the series focusing on
decentralized finance better known as
defy
in episode 4 of the defy series i chat
with aud roland and adrian felberg lead
maintainers at flamingo finance
flamingo is a d5 platform in the neo
ecosystem that allows users to swap
between nep17 tokens provide and stake
liquidity for rewards
and participate in initial dex offerings
in this conversation aud adrian and i
discussed the team's background in web 2
before becoming flamingo's maintainers
the shifting mindsets people have in
their relationships with finances
building in bear markets
cross chain and other features on
flamingo's road map
the flood staking token
how meme coins can activate an ecosystem
and much more just a reminder nothing
said on this podcast is a solicitation
to buy or sell any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
financial advice
and that the host or guests may hold
tokens discussed in any given episode
with that said i really enjoyed chatting
with aud and adrian and i hope you enjoy
the conversation too
[Music]
today we are blessed to have a
double interviewee audience today we
have adrian and aud from the flamingo
finance project on the neo blockchain
how are you guys doing today doing spine
and you i'm doing great it's been a
while since we all like last
communicated on a podcast you guys were
on the neo news today podcast last year
and i believe that was when you were the
my mingo team
so maybe we can just kind of start off
this conversation with
what were you doing before
you started working on flamingo
and how did
those projects you were working on
prepare you to take over the d5 platform
i think maybe old is best to answer this
because um usually
he's so eager and like full of energy so
he finds new projects new stuff to do
all the time and i'm just always late to
the party and
come and clean up though i think you can
take it away uh yeah we've been working
together for i think it's 14 years now
so basically we're like this old married
couple
we always like had our niches so
instead of like working on the same
stuff but also being able to overlap so
we have worked in a lot of web 2 stuff
building software as a service companies
building
the internal crm systems for businesses
and stuff like that and that was really
fun
we've been doing like crypto stuff all
the time but
for like the wrong reasons
we've been building big mining hubs that
was fun uh
having these huge machines
running
but we also like being doing trading
building trading bots and everything
that we and we ended up like always
doing bad deals because we're really bad
traders we we buy high and slow
all the time
so the reason why we ended up
here was because we said
let's do like a blockchain for the right
reasons but
bring to the game what we can do we can
build
so
we started doing a lot of research on
different trends where to where to build
because if you want to build the need to
have a solid foundation to build on and
we then did not like think
where is it the most people today we
thought about like
in 10 years when the bubble burst who
will survive
and
for us that's like the people that has
the best technology and also the best
economic coalition for the future like
that you're able to survive some bear
markets and and also proven that you're
willing to survive bear markets because
it's so easy to say when like everything
goes up and your nft collection of some
asparaguses or something like is worth a
couple of million dollars that you will
stay here forever but then when they're
worth like 10 or something and everyone
leaving the community and go back to
their daily jobs
it's like
yeah a lot of blockchains from the top
100 back into 2017 has disappeared what
we like about neo is that they're still
here they're still building and when we
saw a neo-n3 that was like
this is the foundation for us to build
upon this is where we can build
skyscrapers
so that's why we joined the the discord
and
or i enjoyed the discourse and started
chatting with people and i had a lot of
fun hanging out in the marketing channel
in the general channel and people were
nice and
yeah and some guys said like you should
check out flamingo and i went in there
and i was like nah this is some
corporate corporate stuff
i don't understand anything
so so i went out again and then two
weeks later another guy was like i'm
making a thousand dollars a month
just by staking and i was like taking
what is this taking you talk about
so then we started reading about difa
and staking and how this works and like
the plans behind decentralized finance
and it was really brilliant and we
tested our flamingo we saw a couple of
things that like started bugging us at
least me
because i like to have an overview of
the day-to-day stuff all the time so
built the dashboard the my mingo
dashboard to to like fetch data and give
like a live representation of the data
so that's how it started basically and
people liked the simple solutions one
button click instead of
making it hard and i think that's the
way forward for blockchain is to start
making things for people and not for
nerds
and and that's blocked in general
because blockchain isn't sexy and
blockchain isn't something my mom's
gonna understand but
if she can use her credit card to invest
in and like fund or something like that
that like grows in value or people can
trade with her money and she can earn
fees
that she can understand and she does not
need to understand blockchain people
don't understand how their phones work
they don't understand like how they call
someone but they still use them because
it's user friendly i think as
decentralized finance grows
so does
in parallel private finance so people
are seeking for more to own stocks to
own funds to manage their private
economy and invest
even though
it might be crypto it might not be
crypto at least in norway that's the
trend people like to actually
trade now stocks and
everyone's pro i think the mindset is
kind of shifting from just having your
money in the bank with a passive
interest or something negative interest
yeah right now so maybe that's twice 15
but at some point
i think decentralized finance and
private finance will
cross over because
more and more people get knowledge about
crypto and
teams like ours on flamingo
tried to lower the barrier of entry to
crypto i know we usually say that we do
try to achieve that
it takes time you know
making that
jump between your yet credit card and
having christina wallet it's still hard
for us to do but i think
that is the trend now that people want
to take charge of their own finances
are you noticing that a lot more people
are choosing to
park their money into investments be
they
equities or speculative cryptocurrencies
because of these concerns over inflation
or are you noticing this is a trend that
started largely during the pandemic i
know robin hood became very popular here
in the states and probably
internationally
especially with people getting stimulus
money and then not being able to spend
it anywhere so yeah they just yellowed
it on gme and amc and other stocks or
is this like a trend that was slowly
starting to begin even before the
pandemic and these inflation fears
i think there's multiple factors
these things
happening like robin hood
and there's the
inflation in a lot of countries the
stimulus checks people
like notice
how okay how much dollar were printed is
that like 100 more or what so people
started like realizing is this good for
the economy or not should i should i
invest in something else should i only
hold dollars is that really safe
i think
like with also
recovery 19
people were afraid of the future in
general should i maybe buy gold should i
buy something else where should i invest
my money for it to be safe and now with
the
war in europe as well
there's a certain uncertainty in the air
so
people don't know what to do can i add
two things to that yeah i think like we
as a species like we evolve all the time
we get more knowledge and we're starting
now to go from being factory workers
to become more like
people have their
home offices they have more charge of
their own life you don't like go to your
work at eight in the morning and come
home at four so with more knowledge we
we also want to take more responsibility
of our own economy
so i think that's also a trend that's
been going on for a long time and are
going on in some countries and some
countries are lagging behind
i think it's a lot about education that
we're starting to get ready for this
we're starting to get ready for people
being able to
take care of their own finances and also
the entry level now is so low at least
for stocks and stuff like that with the
robin hood app because before that you
needed to know a lot of stuff to do it
but robin hood made it easy and that's
basically the same for the e5 it needs
to be made easy needs to be made simple
so in a couple of years it's just as
easy as robin hood and then people have
enough knowledge to start to like take
advantage of that as well yeah that's a
good point and uh i couldn't help but
see a little bit of irony when adrian
was mentioning that
people are leaving the factories and
starting to work from home and then you
know i just think of my transition from
working in the government
to working in the crypto space and you
can go from working in eight to four in
a factory to working 24 7 at home
in the crypto and blockchain space
sometimes it feels so this is a
fascinating kind of 10 000 foot
discussion standing up high looking down
really happy to be able to break into
this
sort of mindset for the smart economy
podcast but i do want to come back down
to earth a little bit because you guys
were just at the block down 2022
conference
which is probably the first time since
before coronavirus that i saw
more than one neo ecosystem
project in the same place at the same
time
so can you just share a little bit about
what the vibe was like at the conference
you were at
what was it like to meet
people who've been in the neo ecosystem
for years as well as new market
participants with dogerift and what was
just the experience at the conference
like what was the mood like what were
the attendees like what were the
developers like just want to kind of
hear a brain dump of your experience
yeah i was holding the port while old
was there actually so
he needs to share that experience so
somebody needs to run the office while
he has spawned by the pool in croatia
but yeah take it away
it was like fun in the basement
basically because the booth were down in
the basement
so while people were out in the sun we
were just standing down in this basement
with like all these led lights and uh
yeah it was really cool but
i need to say like uh
they had the event at a bad time in the
market so i guess like they expected 3
000 people to join
but if i like stretch the bit i would
say 500 over the three days
like in total so some people were there
just one day some people came the next
day yeah so
there was few people it was really nice
to meet other people from the new
ecosystem and it was really nice to meet
those people that was there because i
think what we now had was more core
crypto people uh you know the guys that
have been here since 2017. it's not like
the mood doesn't change since since
bitcoin price goes down they are like
used to this they have a plan that like
crypto isn't for just now it's also for
the future so i had a lot of interesting
conversations with a lot of people of
course the the topics were more about
this insane investments to web 3
projects
i have this theory it's just my theory
about
a
couple of months ago there were 4 000
billion dollars or something in crypto
now it's a thousand billion dollars
and the money isn't gone it's not like
we burned it it's just that smart
investors has pulled it out from the
market to see who survives and who dies
and the survivors will get that money so
if you have a long-term plan if you have
good technology and you you are here to
stay for like a decade at least like
that's your work chest and that's your
game
then the investors will look at you
because you're one of the projects
that's standing up after a lot of
projects around you are dead
and i think that
it needs to happen because we're we're
at this phase where you can go to an
investment company and say i will build
something on web3 and they give you 10
million
you don't have to explain more than that
because they think that they will get
their money back or 15 million dollars
for it and that's
how like
all the bubbles that we've seen in the
past have been people just throwing
money because they think that they can
get more money back
and it doesn't need to have any real
value
the people that were there were
looking for real value i feel like every
conference i ever go to is during a dip
or a down turn
i'm usually running into the builders
rather than the speculators yeah so
while on the surface it might
not sound super
exemplary or amazing that only 500
people showed up but i think that the
probably the quality of conversations
you were having were probably much
higher because the concentration of
individuals that were there were the
long-term folks that you were speaking
of yeah yeah 100
now
something that just happened in the
broader blockchain ecosystem is one of
like these newer sexier projects luna
and tara collapsed
and this was something that two weeks
ago
maybe other than a lot of people who
were just like throwing their arms in
the air and screaming ponzi
those people maybe saw that this was an
issue but the broader blockchain
ecosystem you know there was a lot of
people that were participating in this
so i'm wondering how does
like such an epic collapse of such a
large project
have an impact on the work that you guys
are doing with flamingo
did you
feel it did it shake your ground a
little bit when we saw this
these tens of billions of dollars just
get wiped off because this algo stable
coin protocol
collapsed what was that like from your
perspective
as builders because even though you're
not stable coin project
you know stable coins are a huge part of
defy so this had to have an impact i
just want to hear a little bit about
what it was like from your experience
from my experience
it kind of sounds strange maybe but i i
wasn't that nervous because the only
conversations i was basically having
with all this
how do we plan
if we are going in a real bear market
where all prices flash to maybe one
tenth because of this event
how does the outcast look for developing
in the next 12 months or 24 months
so he was shifting
the focus or it wasn't shifting the
focus is always on building but we
didn't shift focus to like trading or
what should we do or uh we just actually
released the algorithmic stable coin on
flamingo oh my god what's gonna happen
it was the same day yeah so
we were like
it's it seems a bit different
we need to let that settle and see
what's what really happened we were
almost focused on how does it look like
building in a bear market if it's
crashing right now we're always prepared
for it to crash and also what do we
learn from it yeah like because this is
a huge lesson to learn from and uh of
course you need to like figure out how
this happened
from what
i know uh or not know or what i read on
the internet basically
i would conclude this to be active greed
that like took luna down
it tends to always be like that at least
with projects that are harvest holly
foundation greed is not good
so it's more like you need to find the
values
why are you here
and for me and adrian we also talked
about that like for us it's it's
building we're here to like make
innovations that's basically at least
from my perspective it's
that's what i get my life from i get a
huge kick of making new stuff that
nobody thought of or
like fit with adrian for 16 hours and
just brainstorm and come up with a
thousand bad ideas and then find this
one good that like yeah this is
plausible let's test it out
it's also then
the ideas are it's so fun to
try to figure out how to implement them
and it's also a little bit fun to
implement them and then when you finally
release there's like no joy left
there's never any champagne for any
release or something because then it's
just just the hard work but i think
we're so lucky that we are able to
features that are used by thousands of
users and so we get all that feedback
and we are actually
we're lucky to be able to be tired
working tirelessly because people spam
when when when and i think it's a good
thing
the incident with luna terra
it took us
a little bit because of course we
we have assets our users have a lot of
crypto assets
and uh we're also concerned for our user
and community members
invested who invested heavily in luna
and usd
so
it was more like we were worrying for
them but we weren't worrying for us yeah
it's not that i expected less but it's
still refreshing to hear like the first
thing we thought of is how do we keep
building for the next two years with a
tenth of our funds and at neo news today
we
had to go through this exercise
ourselves during the last bear market of
2018 and 2019
so
almost just that answer to that question
almost makes it is is like a litmus test
for who's going to be here in the next
year or two where if that's one of the
first things you're thinking probably
yes then yeah it's it's almost like
you know if that's your first principle
then every step afterwards is already
built on a good foundation so again i'm
not trying to say like i expected to
hear less but those are always like
comforting kind of things to hear
especially for a platform that already
exists and you guys just talked a little
bit about
coming up with an idea and loving it and
then by the time you ship it's not the
idea that you first imagined it's not
all butterflies and fairies and it took
a lot of grinding to get there
and you probably had an underwhelming
response when you finally delivered
which is just par for the course because
everybody
wants the flashiest splashiest things
and people don't realize a lot of the
work that goes under the hood
so something that i'm kind of interested
in learning a little bit about what you
guys are thinking of these days is
you've done a lot of great things with
the platform but i'm wondering about
cross chain interoperability
something that when flamingo launched in
2020 there was talk about this but you
guys recently integrated support for
pancake swap fcake so
what's your perspective on
cross-chain connectivity with other
networks we want to do more
yeah
it's a plan in progress here
so i understand like from the user's
perspective that you like want this big
things that high price and stuff but
since day one we've been for us it's
been
flamingo it's not gonna be a hype
project it's gonna be a solid project
built over time and a solid foundation
and a plan takes time so i understand
that like people are why isn't this here
now when this is coming why isn't that
and it's like yes but as i said like
earlier today that
we have this 10 to 15 year plan for what
we're doing here not like to just hype
it up and dump it down
because there's no real value in that so
we want flamingo basically to compete
with finance when it comes to trading
peers and everything but today flamingo
is the worst platform to trade on
because you have to be awake and you
have to push that button when the price
is great and that's a really bad thing
for a trader
so
that's why we're now working really hard
actually today uh i've been working hard
on on-chain order book that doesn't
require bots
so the way they solve it on other
d5 platform at least those we've seen is
that you
pay to a bot network that i want to buy
neo at ten dollars and then when the amm
hits ten dollars the the bot goes and
kills that order for you
the issue with that is the people that
tell
they will still have the same price
impact in the mm
so you need a huge like pool to not have
a big price impact and then the the
order book is basically just spots
buying and selling to them
but with the order becoming now on
flamingo
you can add limit orders and you can buy
it directly and you don't need bots so
it will be just us
doing it on binance but then you have
the automated market maker
to stand in the middle to fix the spread
automatically so it will be basically
like a centralized exchange but just
better are you going to be pulling off
of like binance apis or are you just
copying the work that they're doing or
what does that look like oh it's kind of
new i guess we haven't found any other
like big t5 platform doing this there's
maybe some smaller that we haven't seen
but
the thing is the
automated market maker is
really good
for making the market basically if
you've ever tried to create a market
maker bot for a centralized exchange you
know it's hard because
you need to have some sort of metric of
how you balance between the
two assets in a pair
and the amm using math formula solves
that perfectly well
the the problem with having order books
on chain is that there is usually the
block time or confirmations that you
have to deal with so it takes a lot of
time and
it's also
if you don't have a lot of
orders in the order book has a huge
spread and it's hard to trade but you
can have a mix between the amen and the
order book so that a map fills in the
gap between each order so actually an
order book with just one mask and one
bid is perfectly fine for people who
wants to place just one limit order and
you could still trade on it it will work
fine because you can rely on the
automated market maker in
like behind all the orders that's the
true innovation here
and i think that will be really really
nice for people to be able to trade so
back to your original question about
across the chain i think is a
before b and not b before a because if
we add more cross chain functionality no
now and more trading pairs
we might just dilute the minting rewards
and the fees for liquidity providers
and
one of the maybe best services we
provide right now is for the takers
let's be honest it's not fun to trade at
flamingo compared to binance or even the
mx that i like or do what they're doing
so
i think we need to now just solve this
basic stuff first like with the order
book and with a good advanced trade that
i've been trying to ship for weeks but
i'm overloaded with work i think that's
that's the a and then we come to the b
that's adding more cross-chain
functionality and more peers we want to
add dog we want dodge we want to add
shiba we want to add all these popular
tokens
everything yeah yes uh usd we want more
of the stable coins there just not
either and um dearborn usd
i think that's the future because we
want to compete with other trading
platform we need you need to be able to
trade and what we want to trade like
popular assets and new listings of
course and then we will be
i think always a neo first platform so
new projects will have a place to
launch
on our platform yeah they have a good
place now with reverse pools so
that has been fun and innovation as at
least
yeah i just want to pull on that so
i've never seen a reverse pool elsewhere
but i have to imagine that they exist so
what are they called on other dexes or
other non-custodial exchanges and
what do you view the role of a reverse
liquidity pool
as
a tool or a part of the tool kit for
helping a project become active in the
ecosystem that they're building in
we don't know about any other places so
we haven't like find inspiration i guess
maybe someone else has it but for us it
was um
we needed to solve a problem
we needed to be able to list the token
on flamingo without giving yourself a
benefit of listing it
so if you list the regular token on
flamingo and even flm you take basically
from the minting rewards and give it to
that project so when a token has meeting
rewards you give them free money for
like people adding liquidity and buying
their tokens and stuff like that so
in the future that will be reversed for
big tokens that we need to bring that we
want to bring in like bnb
dodge and stuff like that that brings in
trading volume so the reverse pool is in
my opinion the new way of doing ideals
the first you have the icos and then you
have the ideals
and now in flamingo we have the reverse
pools it's the perfect way for a project
to give rewards for stakers that believe
in their token
it's a perfect way to distribute tokens
to people and also get a price it's
really important for a project to get a
price else it's really hard to say what
the market feels that it's worth and
it's also really hard
for me to say to a project if let's say
a project comes yeah but our token is
worth a dollar
no or yeah or maybe
so so like that's someone putting a
price on their own baby
but with the reverse pool you let the
market decide the price from day one
and you also let the stakers that builds
the pool
be able to collect rewards for believing
in your toe in the project's token yeah
so it just brings good to flamingo
basically i think the conversation was
something like okay we have this set of
problems and uh we took a look at
pancake scorpio but you can like list
the pair there but you can list any pair
should we
could we allow people to just list
anything might be reputation destructive
if something some bad actor just deploy
up here and uh or trading pair so okay
maybe we should bet the projects at
least the number but like okay they can
just add it why will people add
liquidity there can you set minting
rewards on pancake no you can't why
can't you and i was like reverse pools
were born like basically there was a set
of problems and how would we solve them
and uh usually all this really creative
on these parts and it's like but you can
just oh you can't because nobody else
has done it like that
all right just do
like if it's logical in my brain
and no it's not an answer then you feel
like you need to show me that it's not
working and i will be on your back
until you like show that it's not
working because i said oh it's possible
it's possible
i do have a question
it's always been difficult to address
like token sales with neo because
uh neo was founded in china
so did the fact that
the underlying technology neo itself
that this project does not actively
promote icos and doesn't actively
promote capital events was that also
something that took a front place or had
any weight
in the creation of of reverse liquidity
pools because now you're not doing icos
you're doing this token distribution
basically no
when you say it like that i would like
to say yes
but to be honest no we didn't think
about that we we had a problem to solve
and needed to find a good way
to solve it and i think the way we found
now is the new way of
making projects launched because
for me ideo and i still has always been
really
wrong because then you have someone
setting a price on something
and it's hard to value why not let the
market just decide what the price would
be it can be like inflated it can be
wrong
but then again it's the market so then
it's up to the market to decide it yeah
it was really cool to see
liarbird reach the price that it did
because in chatting with william he
thought oh i'll just set it at 10 cents
and then the market decided so it's
really nice to kind of
see the platform users be able to decide
the price of something based off of how
much they want it or don't want it i
know that this might be an unfair
question to ask to put you guys on the
spot but are there any other reverse
liquidity pools in the works right now
are you talking with other teams we love
to be transparent so nothing is on the
spot when people ask that's that's the
best thing when people ask us about
anything it's not like you can put us on
a spot because it's
transparency as far as it gets perfect
well who's the next frp then
right now it's no one okay we're having
some projects that want to launch but we
have some demands that they need to meet
first because
you cannot just make an f-17 token and
say i want to reverse for us it's also
about flamingo's reputation and we have
an obligation to protect flamingos users
so people can maybe feel it's unfair or
something but we have the same demands
for every project they need to have good
tokenomics they need to have utility
because we have gas that you can like
send from one person to another so we
don't need an another like send from a
person to another token that's not
utility anymore some projects are
working on like meeting the demands
as soon as we have something we will
announce it there might be room for for
other neo projects to do reverse pools
and just have a s 10 token for person a
to person b but it won't be on our
platform and like the code for the
reverse pulse or everything flamingo
contract related is open source so feel
free to copy and paste and do everything
you want but like on flamingo we try to
keep a reputation of
like vetting the project and
puns should be safe and that should be
the the highest priority and security
should be highest priority
that's why there there might be a lot of
projects and a lot of stuff going on on
neo right now especially with the
latest hackathon
but we won't be just spewing out frp
well maybe fortunately maybe
unfortunately who knows depends on who
you are and what your my motivation is
that begs the question is there ever
going to be a day when flamingo has
uniswap like functionality where users
can just provide their own lps
or
is that something that flamingo thinks
is interesting but maybe other ecosystem
participants can create that for their
platforms yeah i've talked about it yeah
already two platforms are doing it it's
a nice thing to do that the issue is
that it has huge security and problems
you can trade on
pancake swap in a pool that someone
created and that's fine
and crypto
like people that know crypto and know
this stuff it isn't a problem but we
want to build flamingo for grandmas
basically we want to make sure that
everyone can use it and then we need
also to make sure that it's a safe place
of course there's risks involved in
crypto and that's why you have rewards
it's just simple as that risk reward but
we try to eliminate the biggest risk so
grandma don't like have all her savings
in
this prom point pool and and his rug
pulled because that's the issue if you
just let anyone make a liquid tipple
so
there's like in pancake swap you can
create your pool and you can lock away
the liquidity that's sort of a safety
but still
there might be some other project with
this just a similar name of the token
and create something that looks like it
and the liquidity is locked away but who
cares because it's a fake kind of token
and you invest in it and yeah there's
way to to
damn around this and
i think also
if you believe in flamingo and the
platform and the devs
these are the people also making
decisions about who gets the spot
on flamingo so if you trust in the
platform itself you should also maybe
trust a little bit that they've done the
background on the projects that are
launched there so it's paper in that way
also because you can invest in something
and the devs on the
let's say the dog riff team we are
confident that they will be able to
deliver and be able to build
what they say they will build
and if anyone can just release their own
pool
we don't have that background check of
is this team legit are they just new
players and they can't even write any
smart contracts and um
this kind of is simple
yes
so this is what you avoid when you're
exclusive
like we are when you guys took over
flamingo which was what in august now of
last year around then september
yeah so you guys kind of it was just
youtube but you've grown your team
and to a bunch of people now i guess
maybe like six or seven maybe even eight
people yep how has the addition of new
team members helped to
battle test or make flamingo a
more hardened platform i guess is the
best way to put it
i guess what i'm really asking is how
has the growth of your team helped you
guys make flamingo a better platform a
lot without them we couldn't do it so
simple as that what i really like about
our team is that they are picked from
the community it's not like we just
brought in like our own people from
outside we be people in the community
that contributes or like have an
experience
outside of what we
know so we see that they have some
some traits that can even make it better
for us so
that's why we bring them aboard because
they can make it like this if you have
this stats this cake diagram they will
make the cake full so we can just make
the middle and it will be so-so but then
they come and like add copy to text or
they make the backend or databases and
help out with the support tickets and
stuff like that so i'm really proud that
it's just like this
community team
because that makes it like a democratic
thing where it's not just me and adrian
bringing our own people on board it's
people that picked from the community
people that's been there before us
yeah so so so that's the best thing
because some of them have more knowledge
about defy and other projects and stuff
like that than we do so we learn a lot
from them and it's been a learning
process in itself to expand the team in
other software
adventures that we had we usually just
outsource development for a project
specific task and then we're just
continue to do
the day-to-day and service ourselves but
this time around is perpetual and
we have had to let someone go that we
had paid in
really didn't deliver what we
thought they would so it's been a
learning process of also trying to find
the best people and i think we are a
group of really really eager talented
people now not to toot my own horn too
much but i think like me and old were
we're very top of our field and a lot of
these other guys they are
pretty damn good at what they're doing
i'm so so impressed sometimes
so it's it's really good that also me or
not can focus on what we are good on we
are able to do it because the other team
members help out so much
and i think like karate has a hundred
dms every day and
for me i
am like quality control and so detail
oriented i wouldn't get anything dumb if
we were only me and not so um
we can grow even more i think but right
now we're
at a good number of people yeah and
letting people go especially on a team
that you're building from scratch and
that you kind of built with like your
heart is always difficult really hard
i've had roles like that where the hard
decision had to be made and either way
it doesn't feel good
and take this as a compliment not as
like a backhanded compliment but you
guys first landed in the neo ecosystem
in quarter one of 2021 i believe you're
probably working on neo stuff a little
bit beforehand but my mingo kind of made
it splash with its single staking
platform in march last year i believe
yeah you can just like tell you can hear
in the way that you guys speak and what
you're talking about like defy has
become more and more
uh your native language like it's easier
for you to think in that way one of the
things that i really am excited about
with the platform is flund
you created a way to distribute fees to
individuals who single-side stake
now
something that i appreciate being a fund
token holder
is that 20 of the flm minted every day
goes to the fund holders
the question i have is how did you
decide on 20 because you have maybe like
12 or 10 other liquidity pools and there
was already a battle for how much flm
there are these liquidity pools going to
get
so what was the decision process like
for creating fund and then what was the
process like for deciding how much of
minting rewards you're going to
distribute there
and why did you go with a fifth of the
daily minting rewards the reason for
creating the fun is that single stake in
my opinion single stick is a bad thing
it's a really bad thing it's just like
inflationary all where you give a lot of
tokens to people that hold your token
what happens the day you stop giving
them tokens what happens to the tokens
in that those tokens go to the market
and the price go down it's simple as
that so so you need to give them tokens
keep them there
all the platforms have 50 of the liquid
that deal locked in a pool that just
generates
more of that token to them so
we had a lot of community members
wanting a single stake pool i was never
a fan adrian was never a fan we talked
about it the community was a big fan so
we were like okay how can we solve this
and not build that inflationary pool so
we created the flan that where you get a
percentage of the trading fees so
basically you invest in the platform and
the performance of the platform
and yeah you get some minting rewards
and that's to incentivize people to put
flm in there now we also released the
tokenomics for the future of flamingo so
there you see that every six months
there will be a step down on everything
and it wasn't an issue taking the the
minting rewards because some of the
pools had let's call it too much it's
really simple i know this is hard to
hear for people providing liquidity but
flamingo is a marketplace
so you don't need a million apples if
people want bananas
you need just as many apples as people
want to buy and you need as many bananas
as people want to buy
so yeah maybe
that like gives you less rewards but we
need to provide the service that the
customer wants
else you won't have customers
so
what that's based on is how much trading
there is how much the volume is in the
average days of course you have days
where bitcoin goes down ten thousand
dollars and you should have like billion
dollars in every liquid deal
but you can't like it down for that so
it's based on the averages of the
platform now and it's also based on that
we will improve the trading experience
we will have more trading with order
book the fund will get the maker and
taker fees
because then you don't use liquid
depools and
also then at least in my theory we
haven't like tested this out in real
life but then you can have much smaller
liquid depool and that's how we also can
bring on a lot of more tokens and give
them a limiting because you don't need
30 million dollars in liquidity because
the price impact
will be like
taken with the order book
so today it's it's hard to trade a
million dollars in a pool that has 200
thousand dollars in it
you know you will get
like more of the liquidity around the
spread or closer to the price
then it's better to trade and you need
less in the in the market maker for my
calculations with the liquidity we have
now like jumping a couple of cents on
the token
in price you could actually have
thousands of flm between uh one cent or
two cent up on the fused pair so it
doesn't really make sense trading wise
but with the order book you can take
away a lot of the liquidity because you
don't really need it there and also the
i think the flm b neo pool
it wasn't meant to be
as high as that forever needed a place
to put it where it was basically serving
the platform the most yeah and it made
sense to have it one place and then take
it away the large tank from that one
place afterwards so when we set up the
meeting rewards for all the other pairs
we're like ah should we just do it equal
nah because it's not going to be this
high so they get used to it being low
gotcha so it sounds like the order book
you guys are creating it's like a order
book amm hybrid yep okay and you're
pretty psyched about it so how long have
you been working on this and
what's like a eta for when when
yeah when when order book
it looks good we've been working on the
order book for
i would say
a half a year like in total if you like
take the planning and like figuring out
how to do it and brainstorming and all
that stuff
making the actual code isn't that hard
making the frontend isn't that hard the
process is like finding the way to do it
the the correct way to do it actually
the process with the order book was me
starting to create
trading bot where i could say i want to
buy gas at this price and i said to
adrian when this is done i will put it
up on github and people can run it on
their computer and then we basically
have order book on flamingo that was my
solution to just solve the problem
because i was like this is a bad trading
platform and then adrian was like but we
can do this with a smart contract and
then we started like with this huge
thing that would cause a lot of gas or
you needed bots and stuff like that and
we just iterated iterated iterated
iterated until we were like this is
perfect
so let's say i want to buy gas at a
certain price well i have to lock up
like fusdt into a contract so that when
that price is hit then the order book
can execute that contract yeah okay
you have to freeze your assets because
else you could double spend it yeah so
you will have to send your let's say if
you'd be into the order book then you
make a
limit order there and then on front then
people can see that ah dylan is selling
saw or want to buy some gas nice he want
to buy for a thousand dollars i want to
sell four thousand dollars so i would
have like zero point zero zero one
percent price impact
but if you did it directly in the mm you
would maybe have a percent price impact
or something like that yeah so in the
erc 20 and the e20 tokens on ethereum
and finance smart chain there's actually
a separate endpoint called allowance
that will allow a contract or
any address spent on behalf of your
wallet address
we don't have that in an f17
as standard so we you just you you have
to lock it up it's maybe not it's
because it's the same thing that you do
in the centralized exchange basically in
my opinion though that isn't necessarily
a bad thing especially when you have
when you're building for a grandma
like for example look at the danger that
allowances have for community members
who buy board ape yacht club they're not
familiar with cryptocurrencies they go
to a malicious website and they allow
the malicious attacker
to
essentially move their nfts and this is
how they get rugged because they didn't
know any better they didn't know that
they were allowing a malicious actor so
pros and cons and i bet there's a reason
why it's not in the nep17 so i haven't
asked around i haven't like but this is
what i pay your security yeah but but i
like it like if you want to sell a
thousand dollars and you like involved
and put it in the order book why should
it still be in your wallet that would
just be confusing
and then when like the price goes up or
down or something and your order is
about to execute but you spent some of
your money so you didn't get the trade
so that would like give you a bad
experience
we allow you to edit the price though so
then you can manage the order that way
so you don't have to take the funds in
and out and is that all all that
information stored on chain yep okay um
so as much as possible because uh it's
decentralized finance you know not that
life
yeah we have a few minutes left but
there is an interesting realm that i
wanted to pull on your ears you guys
recently released nudes
and i know that meme coins are
divisive at best there's only two types
of doge holders there's one doge equals
one doge dose to the moon forever and
always and then there's the people who
are like
this is stupid this is a scam you're
gonna lose all your money
so what is your perspective of meme
coins and how do you think that they can
benefit and ecosystem
and what are the pros of meme coins and
not necessarily the cons
it's fun it's easy and if you want the
entry to something if it's hard like
first time i went into flamingo me as
like nerd i am i just went out
it was too hard for me to enter because
it would require me to like take an hour
of my day to find out how this works
but
i have a lot of friends that never like
downloaded the online wallet they never
like
bought flamingo or neo or something
because they were like on an exchange or
something but then when i asked them if
they wanted some nudes
yeah it was really simple and now
they're like baking on flamingo they're
learning about these files you're taking
it like one step at a time it's a really
really good way to get people to enter
and also
i think like dodge has the
thing that they were first so that's
like their thing
and then for everyone else it's just
based on utility i guess and for nudes
it's gonna be a lot of good utility
it's a plan there it started as a joke
it started as like just me wanting to
send jobsters and adrian some nudes
and i don't like it to do it the
old-fashioned way
thank you
it is um
old being impatient again i guess
more of a certain new project but
i think we got um from a community
member he had like a really cool
perspective on uh on the meme
tokens that i haven't really thought
about before
it's more
like the pennies you spend that you send
to each other that you actually buy ice
cream with because
also like with nudes when you have so
many of them it's like hard to get this
relationship of how much you really have
and then you're like willing to spend
them more i guess and
i have a feeling in the news community
and in doge community with these meme
coins
you're not so reluctant to send them to
friends
to be like share them and bring other
people on i feel
like with your neo
you're holding holding them like gollum
like
precious i want them all by myself
so i think the meme tokens have
something
they are closer to cash actually so it's
a big win for them
not sure if this this is 100 true but
it's like a gut feeling i have after
this community member opened my eyes to
it looking at it this way yeah it's it's
funny because the amount of nudes i've
sent i've probably spent more gas on the
network
just sending them to people
so therefore it's always been this
interesting kind of perspective i've had
that the utility in nudes or like the
actual market price
can be derived based off the amount of
gas that's been spent on the amount of
tokens that have been sent yeah it's
weird because there's no and you guys
have been giving the project utility but
at first there was no utility other than
sending nudes to get nudes but
underlying market
factors involved spending gas which is
being burnt on the network and is
actually using the network and
increasing activity on the neo network
but since then you guys have also
expanded its functionality i thought it
was really cool you guys did with the og
nudes tokens
and it was even cooler that basically at
the time it was like a 4 500 purchase to
buy the nft but then you guys refunded
the first token holders who bought
within the first 48 hours so there are
these really unique and innovative ways
that you guys are engaging the community
and rewarding participants are you
seeing
that this is
attracting new community members outside
of the neo bubble like are you getting
just people who like meme coins in
general from
tron and ethereum and solana we've got
so many new users
yeah and flamingo got so many new users
because of nudes and basically
nudes is the best way to do marketing
for neo as we talked about earlier
blockchain isn't sexy and device and
sexy try to go out on the street and
sell this fight to someone yeah
all this hard
like even my girlfriend or beyonce she
i should start saying do you have a
girlfriend and fiance no i should start
saying because we're getting married
that's an old habit but even she doesn't
understand
like 80 of the conversation i have
without when i uh i work from home and
she like sometimes listening because i
have my door open and she comes in and
tries to repeat everything i say and she
just laughs at me these are just the
gibberish words you're talking about
these aren't like
applicable in the real world but uh but
nudes are so when i started talking
about dudes
she was like
what's he up to up there sending news to
people
uh so
it's instantly recognizable and we're
keeping it safe for work i think that's
important but you need to like splash
some attention on you it's funny when i
cover the nudes project i always have to
remind myself i'm in my mid-30s and my
job is to write about sending nudes yeah
i get paid for that
but it's always funny that's like the
the the core utility to that token is
the name
it's just like that because it's so fun
we had a meeting with like a lawyer this
50 year old guy and we were talking and
i was like
after the meeting i was thinking like so
uh do you want me to send you some news
and he was like uh
and i was like starting to laugh and he
was starting to laugh and i was like
yeah yeah they have value and he was
like uh
no it's like it's a cryptocurrency and
you're like oh yeah yeah send me some
news
so we're always having fun with it but a
lot of utility coming for that project
as well so i'm really really psyched for
it it's actually bringing a new term to
the crypto space yeah one thing is meme
to earn but the second one that's gonna
be the huge one is consume term that
will be a game changer yeah awesome i
think it's nice now that we can separate
the fun from the seriousness of course
it's users funds on nudes as well and
they have a price and they have a value
but we can keep it fun in a whole other
way that we can with flamingo but it's
good that we have this kind of
separation because the ideas they don't
don't really stop and we have so much
fun talking about potential things we
can do and with flamingo we could never
do so it needs so we have that
opportunity to also
have some some fun
for nerds it's it's where we go to have
a break
yeah
yeah and it sounds like you kind of need
that outlet because flamingo probably
became more of like a quote-unquote job
than you were hoping it would be or what
kind of got you involved to begin with
so it's always nice to be able to have
those outlets so respectful of
everyone's time i'm going to ask one
last question this is the smart economy
podcast
so from your perspectives what is the
smart economy you want to go first
thought yeah from my perspective it's uh
when
me and you can do
business together selling a house buying
a car renting a car
converting assets and we don't need a
third party or centralized party to gain
fees from us we can let people be the
bank we can let people be the risk
takers and also let the people gain from
that so that's for me the smart economy
yeah and i agree with a lot of that and
i also think
if we talk about smart cars smart homes
uh smart watches
you just
take
something and you add more on top of it
or you look at it totally different what
can a watch be what can a car be with
camp like a whole be in the future or
now with all this tech
and uh with economy it's been
sitting still not doing a lot of
innovation for i would say hundreds of
years and then maybe thousands of years
so it's time that we in the same way
that we created smart cars and smart
homes and smart watches we we create a
smart economy and uh we only scratched
the surface i think odd adrian this was
an awesome conversation the time flew
thank you so much for coming to join the
smart economy podcast it was great to
hear about the lessons you've learned
since you've started building flamingo
it was awesome to talk about some of my
favorite features on the platform and to
kind of touch on your perspective of
what meme coins can do for
engaging awareness
and it was super fun to be able to catch
up with you guys again it's i think this
is the first time we we'd spoken all
year so yeah it's our pleasure thank you
so much for hosting and inviting me yeah
i can't wait to uh have you guys come
back on again next week
maybe maybe a little bit more than next
week but definitely sometime in the
future so thanks so much for coming on
guys and uh cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation
it was really great to be able to catch
up with the flamingo team and to learn
more about the trading and staking
features they have on the road map or
the d5 platform
the on-chain order book sounds like it
started as a passion project but will
soon offer unique functionality for
platform users
and it was exciting to hear that the
team seeks to add new tokens to flamingo
but it was also refreshing to hear that
they confirmed their dedication to being
a neo-focused platform
with that i want to thank you so much
for taking the time to listen to the
smart economy podcast
if you liked what you heard and want to
support the show
please keep mio news today in mind when
voting for your neo council
representative as part of neo's
governance process
we appreciate you and look forward to
catching you next time
you